created a more thorough overview for devfiles (#28)
devfile/docs: docs/modules/user-guide/partials/con_devfile.adoc

[role="_abstract"]

Devfiles are YAML files that describe and define developer workspaces or cloud-native development environments. Devfiles also describe best practices for end-to-end application development while providing a way for being customized or extended to fit a team's current development practices. Instead of forcing a new workflow or tools, devfiles provide instructions for automating what was previously done manually.

Devfiles are consumed by tools that transform the definition into a cloud workspace composed of multiple containers and cloud-native resources. Also, any number of identical workspaces can be created from the same devfile. This way, workspaces can be used by different teams and shared in various ways, including a devfile registry or together with the source code of a project.

The benefits of devfiles include:

* Reducing the gap between development and deployment
* Having a registry for finding and hosting devfiles

> * Producing consistent build and run behaviors

Reviewer: Add (reword if needed):
Extensible to allow easy devfile customization

[role="_additional-resources"]

> .Additional resources

Reviewer: Add a link to an example of tools that currently have devfile support, e.g. odo and we'll add dev console later after they have adopted it.

[role="_abstract"]

> Devfiles are YAML files that describe and define a developer's workspaces or cloud-native-development-environments. Devfiles also describe best practices for end-to-end application development while still being customized or extended to fit a team's current development practices. Instead of forcing a new workflow or tools, devfiles provide instructions for automating what was previously done manually.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Devfiles are YAML files that describe and define developer workspaces or cloud-native development environments. Devfiles also describe best practices for end-to-end application development while providing a way for being customized or extended to fit a team's current development practices. Instead of forcing a new workflow or tools, devfiles provide instructions for automating what was previously done manually.
```

> Devfiles are consumed by tools that transform the definition into a cloud workspace composed of multiple containers and cloud-native resources. Also, any number of identical workspaces can be created from the same devfile. This way, workspaces can be worked on by different teams and shared in various ways, including a devfile registry or together with the source code of a project.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Devfiles are consumed by tools that transform the definition into a cloud workspace composed of multiple containers and cloud-native resources. Also, any number of identical workspaces can be created from the same devfile. This way, workspaces can be used by different teams and shared in various ways, including a devfile registry or together with the source code of a project.
```

The benefits of devfiles include:

* Reducing the gap between development and deployment

> * Finding stacks using the devfile registry

Reviewer 3: I don't know if I would phrase `Finding stacks using the devfile registry` this way.

While I think a registry of stacks is certainly a benefit to using devfiles, I think it makes more sense to say something like "A registry for finding and hosting devfiles?"

Author: @johnmcollier, thanks. I like your rephrase, but for consistency, I want to have every bullet begin with a gerund. What do you think about:
`Having a registry fro finding and hosting devfiles`

Reviewer 3: Yup, I think that  sounds good 👍

> * Customizing devfiles

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Customizing workspaces
```

[role="_abstract"]

Devfiles are YAML files that describe and define developer workspaces or cloud-native development environments. Devfiles also describe best practices for end-to-end application development while providing a way for being customized or extended to fit a team's current development practices. Instead of forcing a new workflow or tools, devfiles provide instructions for automating what was previously done manually.

Devfiles are consumed by tools that transform the definition into a cloud workspace composed of multiple containers and cloud-native resources. Also, any number of identical workspaces can be created from the same devfile. This way, workspaces can be used by different teams and shared in various ways, including a devfile registry or together with the source code of a project.

The benefits of devfiles include:

* Reducing the gap between development and deployment
* Having a registry for finding and hosting devfiles
* Producing consistent build and run behaviors
* Allowing easy devfile customization

> 

Reviewer: Maybe organize it a bit and put these three consumer usage scenario/benefits under a section, e.g. the section name can be something like "Who would use the devfiles?" or "Consumers of devfiles", etc.

Stack providers use devfiles to develop their runtime stacks once and then use these runtime stacks across different tools. Therefore, with devfiles, stack providers do not need to build and maintain custom development tools.

Tool providers use devfiles to build runtime support for each runtime. Now, the devfile runtime teams build and run applications on their servers, giving tool providers more time.

Developers use devfiles to focus only on developing their applications. With devfiles, developers do not need to set up the environment for building and running their applications. Instead, developers have the flexibility to use different tools, like Che and odo.

[role="_additional-resources"]

> .Additional resources

Reviewer: Make Additional resources to be a proper section header (e.g. with different font). Currently, it just looks like the rest of the other text.

[role="_abstract"]

> Devfiles are YAML files that describe and define developer workspaces or cloud-native development environments. Devfiles also describe best practices for end-to-end application development while providing a way for being customized or extended to fit a team's current development practices. Instead of forcing a new workflow or tools, devfiles provide instructions for automating what was previously done manually.

Reviewer 4: At some RH writing training we were advised to write for "non-native speakers with IELTS level 3" (out of 9). While the meaning of the 2nd sentence seems to be clear, do you think grammar here is on the more advanced side and can cause some readers troubles?

E.g. this part: "while providing a way for being customized or extended to fit". If you decide to rephrase it, possible ways could be "users/you can customize and extend devfiles to..." or "... and can be customized or extended to fit..." (but it's passive voice, it's frowned upon in general).

Reviewer 4: Also, this part might also be tricky, WDYT? But not too much, it's up to you, of course, if you'd like to keep it.
   "devfiles provide instructions for automating what was previously done manually"
Will this version be a bit more lightweight?
   "for automating manual processes"

> Devfiles are consumed by tools that transform the definition into a cloud workspace composed of multiple containers and cloud-native resources. Also, any number of identical workspaces can be created from the same devfile. This way, workspaces can be used by different teams and shared in various ways, including a devfile registry or together with the source code of a project.

Reviewer 4: If we intended to reduce passive voice usage, possible rephrasing options would be:
- (development?) tools transform the definition...
- Users can create any number of identical workspaces from the same devfile

But as I wrote earlier I don't believe passive voice is a 100% pure evil, but it's a "no-no" in many RH docs teams.

A single devfile can include:

* Guidance about runtime images

> * Examnple code

Reviewer 4: *Example?

* Build and CI commands
* Deployment options

> The benefits of devfiles include:

Reviewer 4: If "include" is removed, will the sentence lose some meaning? Can it be seen as noise? Or maybe you wanted some consistency with the previous list (A single devfile can include)?

* Producing consistent build and run behaviors
* Allowing easy devfile customization

.Who can use devfiles?

Stack providers use devfiles to develop their runtime stacks once and then use these runtime stacks across different tools. Therefore, with devfiles, stack providers do not need to build and maintain custom development tools.

Tool providers use devfiles to build runtime support for each runtime. Now, the devfile runtime teams build and run applications on their servers, giving tool providers more time.

Developers use devfiles to focus only on developing their applications. With devfiles, developers do not need to set up the environment for building and running their applications. Instead, developers have the flexibility to use different tools, like Che and odo.

.Additional resources

[role="_additional-resources"]

* To see an example tool that uses devfile support, go to https://developers.redhat.com/products/odo/overview[odo].
* To learn devfile terminologies, go to xref:api-reference.adoc[]
* To learn what you can do to a devfile, go to xref:authoring-stacks.adoc[]
* To update your devfile, go to xref:migrating-to-devfile-v2.adoc[]

> * To learn more about devfiles, go to xref:devfile-samples.adoc[]

Reviewer 4: It's highly project-specific: in several projects I worked with the common word preceding links was "see" (instead of "go to"), but I've never heard it was a rule or company style. Feel free to ignore this if you use "go to" consistently in the docs.

In several trainings and meetings writers discussed xrefs and the general consensus was "Don't use xrefs" :) However, if you never experienced issues while building docs, I don't see why you shouldn't use them. I guess writers ran into troubles while working on some legacy docs.
